AI is the noose



The only job growth right now is making more nooses. Who will own these nooses? Not you. 


—-


If we are going to talk about the large scale effects of AI then we need to directly compare this to the Industrial Revolution. 


Here’s how it compares. 


In the last Industrial Revolution we created machines and factory lines. These killed artisanal jobs. But what actually is a factory, or at least a factory one hundred years ago? It is a thing that takes human labor and raw materials and it produces goods.  


It is not a noose. Even if you don’t own the factory, the factory needs you to work there. Factory (the old kind) have a constant demand for labor. 


The Industrial Revolution directly resulted in organized labor. Why? Because Labor finally realized how valuable they were!


—

Now we have AI looming. 


We know it’s responsible for you not having a job. We know it’s responsible for the price of electricity going up. And we don’t know much else. 


Well actually you don’t need to know much else. AI is a new Industrial Revolution. But instead of using labor to make products, it uses electrons to eliminate human jobs.


People at the highest levels that want to convince you of the benefits of AI… The only example they can give you is that it will create construction jobs. Of course creating noose is a one time construction job. 


Your life doesn’t get better. Hailing a taxi isn’t “cheaper” if you don’t have a job. Siri is still dumber than a toddler. You are still unmarried, feeling guilty about everything, and don’t know your neighbors’ names. 


All those same things happened in the first Industrial Revolution, everything except Siri. 


But there’s a difference. When the Industrial Revolution happened, the result was a demand for labor. The demand was so great that labor ran a hundred year streak of demanding days off, safety, minimum wage and more. 


This Industrial Revolution only demands electrons. When the machine is fully built it will require ever more electrons. Managing the electrons that go into this thing is the only thing that matters. There could be another hundred years of drastic fights about deciding which of these things get the electrons we have available. 


And what is the output of these machines? It is job reductions. Every AI system that is commercialized and scaled is design specifically to end human jobs. 


—-


So what it the revolution? What is revolving? 


Well first labor Is now worthless. If it took one hundred years to fully develop organized labor, it should only take ten to dismantle that. When humans are unnecessary to drive cars, do medical diagnostics or do warfare, $10/hr just really is not tenable to pay workers for the remaining work that has not bothered to modernize yet. 


—-


—-


Need to better mix and talk about how electrons are fungible with capital. And this is really a capital revolution.